Rename generic LeafNode object to ClientInfo and move ahead of # Ratchet Tree Operations (#609)
mlswg/mls-protocol: draft-ietf-mls-protocol.md

MUST verify that the LeafNodeRef indicated in the `sender` field identifies a
member of the group.

> # ClientInfo Object

Reviewer: I would probably keep this under `# Ratchet Tree Node Contents`, even if we're going to rename to `ClientInfo`.  In general, struct are introduced in context, e.g., GroupInfo and Welcome are introduced in the context of the relevant join operations.

    HPKEPublicKey public_key;
    Credential credential;
    Capabilities capabilities;

>     Extension extensions<V>;

Reviewer: I don't love the aesthetics of this.  I would like to maintain the invariants that (a) extensions are always at the end of the message and (b) FooTBS is always clearly an extension of Foo.  You've done (b) here, but it's a little hidden in the `select`.  I think the original structs here are clearer, if a bit chattier.

    ClientInfoSource client_info_source;
    select (client_info_source) {
        case key_package:
        case add:
            Lifetime lifetime;
        case update:
            opaque group_id<V>;
        case commit:
            opaque parent_hash<V>;
            opaque group_id<V>;
    }
} ClientInfoTBS;

LeafNode ClientInfo;
~~~~~

The `public_key` field conains an ephemeral HPKE public key whose private key
is held only by the issuer of the KeyPackage (when used inside a KeyPackage),
or the member occupying the referenced leaf (when used as a LeafNode).
The `credential` contains permanent or semi-permanent authentication
information for this member or potential member, as described in {{credentials}}.

The `capabilities` field indicates what protocol versions, ciphersuites,
protocol extensions, and non-default proposal types are supported by a client.
Proposal types defined in this document are considered "default" and thus need
not be listed.  Extensions that appear in the `extensions` field of a ClientInfo
MUST be included in the `extensions` field of the `capabilities` field.

The `client_info_source` field indicates the context in which the ClientInfo

> object is used.

Reviewer: This is incorrect.  The ClientInfo is used as a leaf in the tree for TreeKEM, regardless of how it got there.  This field says how it got there, thus `source`.

Author: The idea of how it got there being relevant even days later is a little weird, so adding an extra sentence or two explaining this would be useful. I started originally trying to do a lighter edit, and trying to say something reasonable that applies to KeyPackages, Proposals, and Commits without tripping over myself was a challenge.

In a KeyPackage or an Add proposal, the `lifetime` field represents the times
between which clients will consider the KeyPackage or LeafNode (public_key and credential) valid.  These
times are represented as absolute times, measured in seconds since the
Unix epoch (1970-01-01T00:00:00Z).  Applications MUST define a maximum total
lifetime that is acceptable for a ClientInfo object, and reject any ClientInfo
object where the total lifetime is longer than this duration.

> In the case where the ClientInfo refers to a leaf node inserted into the tree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case where the ClientInfo represents a leaf node inserted into the tree
```

Author: Yours is better. What do you think of:
...represents a leaf node once it is inserted into the tree.
?

* Verify the `lifetime` field:
  * When validating a downloaded KeyPackage, the current time MUST be within the

>     `lifetime` range.  A ClientInfo that is expired or not yet valid MUST NOT be

Reviewer: Should this be LeafNode, to be consistent with the above?

Author: There was one place in the KeyPackage section where we were talking about lifetimes. In that case, I think the lifetime originally referred to the lifetime of the KeyPackage.

## KeyPackage Validation

The validity of a KeyPackage needs to be verified when a KeyPackage is
downloaded by a group member, before it is used to add the client to the group.
The client verifies the validity of a KeyPackage using the following steps:

* Verify the LeafNode in the KeyPackage according to the process defined in
* Verify `client_info` in the KeyPackage according to the process defined in
  {{leaf-node-validation}}.

* Verify that the signature on the KeyPackage is valid using the public key
  in the LeafNode's credential
  in the `client_info.credential`

* Verify that the ciphersuite and protocol version of the LeafNode match
* Verify that the ciphersuite and protocol version of the KeyPackage match
  those in use in the group.

## Client Capabilities

The `capabilities` extension indicates what protocol versions, ciphersuites,
protocol extensions, and non-default proposal types are supported by a client.
Proposal types defined in this document are considered "default" and thus need
not be listed.

~~~~~
struct {
    ProtocolVersion versions<V>;
    CipherSuite ciphersuites<V>;
    ExtensionType extensions<V>;
    ProposalType proposals<V>;

> } Capabilities;

Reviewer: You removed this and never re-added it.  It needs to be defined somewhere.

Author: oops. My intent was only that it not appear in KeyPackages.

> consider a KeyPackage valid.  A client MUST

Reviewer: This trails off.

Reviewer: In any case, this section should be deleted, because Lifetime isn't an extension any more.
